---
id: 32779e118e414d84746d8775451f6de8
title: Welcome Readers
date: 2018-06-17
---

I'm a designer turned web developer that specializes in front-end applications.
As an advocate for best practices and proper schematics, I believe that the web
should be open and accessible for everyone.

<!--more-->

I’ve struggled for years to get a decent blog up and running. It wasn’t because
of the lack of content, on the contrary, it was the design aspect that was the
obstacle. I designed countless mockups and developed fully functioning
prototypes but they never entirely made the cut. I was so critical of everything
I designed; I always found something that I didn’t like, and then found myself
rejecting each concept.

You might be asking, why not just use a premade template to get it off the
ground? Oh, believe me, looking back I wish I had gone this route. Being a
developer with a background in design, I felt as though I had to create
something from scratch. I suppose I went down this path to prove to myself that
I’m capable of handling the entire flow, and not just tweaking someone else’s
design. I’m quite proud!

I experimented with static site generators, Ghost, Wordpress, Expression Engine,
and even attempted to write my own blogging solution... more than once. I
ultimately settled on using the static site generator Hugo due to its
flexibility, ease of development, and speed.

My hopes for this blog is to capture my programming journey and learnings. I’ll
be sharing the good, the bad, and the in-betweens to provide you with new
knowledge and assist you with solutions to problems that you may come across
too.

I will try my best to respond to comments as soon as I see them, but I may
answer a little slower on weekends due to family obligations.

Thank you for reading my introductory post. This is the beginning of something
great!
